# exoplanet-detection-data-augmentation

Abstract: With manual searching processes, the rate at which scientists and astronomers discover exoplanets is slow because of inefficiencies that require an extensive time of laborious inspections. In fact, as of now there have been about only 5,000 confirmed exoplanets since the late 1900s. Recently, machine learning (ML) has proven to be extremely valuable and efficient in various fields, capable of processing massive amounts of data in addition to increasing its accuracy by learning. Though ML models for discovering exoplanets owned by large corporations (e.g. NASA) exist already, they largely depend on complex algorithms and supercomputers. In an effort to reduce such complexities, in this paper, we report the results and potential benefits of various, well-known ML models in the discovery and validation of extrasolar planets. The ML models that are examined in this study include logistic regression, k-nearest neighbors, and random forest. The dataset on which the models train and predict is acquired from NASA's Kepler space telescope. The initial results show promising scores for each model. However, potential biases and dataset imbalances necessitate the use of data augmentation techniques to further ensure fairer predictions and improved generalization. This study concludes that, in the context of searching for exoplanets, data augmentation techniques significantly improve the recall and precision, while the accuracy varies for each model.
